A sweet cinnamon butterscotch pie recipe with a classic crust made to look like pixels. This pie is a healing agent in the game Undertale and a scrumptious dessert in real life!

Makes 1 pie
Things you'll need
Ingredients Dough 

    2 ½ cups all purpose flour
    2 tablespoons sugar
    ½ vanilla bean
    1 teaspoon salt
    ½ cup salted butter, ice cold
    ½ cup butter flavor shortening, cubed & ice cold
    6 tablespoons buttermilk, chilled
    Egg wash

Filling 

    6 tablespoons cornstarch
    1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
    1 teaspoon salt
    4 egg yolks
    ¼ cup salted butter
    ½ cup dark brown sugar
    1 cup heavy cream
    2 ½ cups whole milk
    ½ cup butterscotch chips

Equipment 

    Large mixing bowl
    Pie dish
    Rolling pin
    Plastic wrap
    Dry uncooked beans
    Small square cookie cutter

Let’s get started!
Dough

    Preheat oven to 350ºF.
    In a large bowl combine flour, sugar, vanilla bean, and salt.
    Add butter and shortening and then work between fingers until the mixture resembles coarse meal.
    Drizzle in ice-cold buttermilk and continue working to form dough.
    Shape the dough into a disc and wrap tightly in plastic wrap. Refrigerate for 2 to 24 hours.
    Roll it out to 1/4 inch thick and place into pie pan. Remove the excess.
    Roll out dough excess and cut out small squares.
    Brush egg wash along the edges and then arrange the dough squares in a pixelated design (PICTURE at 3:43).
    Prick the bottom and inside edges of the pie crust with a fork.
    Cover the pie with plastic wrap and then fill it with uncooked beans. Wrap the beans with the excess plastic (Picture at 4:20). Egg wash edges of the crust.
    Bake for 35 minutes until golden brown around the edges.
    Remove beans and bake another 10 to 15 minutes.

Filling 

    In medium bowl, whisk cornstarch, salt and egg yolks until smooth. Whisk in milk.
    In a saucepan, melt butter over medium high heat and add dark brown sugar. Bring to a boil and whisk constantly for 3 minutes.
    Combine the cream mixture and the sugar mixture. Slowly whisk in the egg mixture.
    Add salt and cinnamon and then bring to a boil, whisking constantly.
    Once thickened, remove from heat and then whisk in butterscotch chips.

Time to decorate!

    Pour the filling into the pie shell and then smooth the top.
    Place the pie on a cooling rack for an hour and then refrigerate to completely cool.
    Serve in slices with whipped cream and a cinnamon stick garnish.
    TaDa! Use this pie during the fight against Asgore to lower his attack and defenses! Or just eat it...!

